Alright, in this video we're going to look
at how you can display the currently logged in user.
And in the next video we are going
to look at how we can actually create
a sign-in form because well, it signs you in
when you sign up for an account.
There's no way to sort of replicate that.
So, if you open up your dev tools
and you go to the application cookies tab
you'll that there is a token
that has been set in your cookies.
And that value contains that actual jwt.
If you were to actually take that
go to jwt dot io, and we were to paste in that token
that you have here, you can see
that the jwt, there's this purple part in the middle.
And that can be decoded into a payload
and you can actually stick a bunch of information
in that if you like.
In our case, this is the specific
user ID that we're looking for.
So, what we want to do is on every single request
this token is going to come along for the ride.
We're going to take that token, decode it
with jwt on the backend, and then
stick the user ID onto every single request.
That means, if we actually need to figure out
who the current user is we can quickly query the database,
having already known that user ID.
So, we're going to jump into the backend
and open up our index dot js.
Remember that we did this server express
middleware for cookie-parser.
Let's build another middleware here.
This is not a package like cookie-parser is.
It's just going to be our own, custom middleware.
So, let's just say decode the jwt
so we can get the user ID on each request.
Say server dot express dot use and this will give us
just like you've ever taken my node course,
you get a request, you get a response, and you get a next.
And, inside of that we will console that log.
Heyyyyyyy, I'm a middleware.
Make sure you know how to use quotes.
And we'll cloud next.
Now, if we open up our terminal here.
Make sure you're on your backend tab.
And if I refresh one of these things.
Actually, you don't see it on this page
'cause there are no queries, so let's go to the homepage.
And you that because there's one, two, three, four
requests that came through, we're getting
all four of those middleware requests coming in.
I think you can also say, request dot send, test.
And I believe this will likely break our application
because what it's doing is it's jacking the request
and sending it out from there.
Actually you can't do next at the same time.
So, now if I refresh this you see that it breaks
because what we're doing is before the actually query
can be run we're stepping in and using a middleware.
That's the whole point of middleware
is that you can step in between requests
or before a request and do a little bit of extra work.
And, in our case if we look at our network
you see here's the response that came back, right, test.
And it actually came back and obviously our application's
going to break because the data that it's getting
looks nothing like the data that we are expected.
So, we'll take that out next.
What we'll do next is just press that down the line
so we can modify the request.
And then, keep the request going
so that our database and our Yoga server
will be able to pick it up no problem.
Now, what we need to do here is first
we need to pull the token out of the request.
So, let's say, const, token is equal to request dot cookies
And let's just console log the token.
Now, open this sucker up again.
I like to clear it out, give it a refresh.
And you see that the token comes
along for the ride every single time.
That's the beauty of using that cookie-parser
is that we're able to access any cookies
that come along on that request by just saying,
request dot cookies dot token.
And, if I were just to console log cookies instead,
and we were to go into our application here.
You see there's some other cookies that just got added here
and you can look at the domain name.
These are coming from Cloudinary.
So, when we request an image they likely set some cookies.
I'm not sure why they would need to set intercom cookies
when you're just loading an image, but they did.
Now, we have this token here.
If I were to add another one, called like, cool.
And we set the value to be true.
And it expires in twenty-twenty.
Now, if I refresh this you'll see that the token
is obviously coming along for the ride
as well as that cool cookie that we add.
And that's the benefit of using cookies
is that I didn't have to send that along
for the ride, it just came with it.
Whereas, with local storage you have to explicitly
send it over every single time.
And that's usually not an issue if you have
just a client side application.
'Cause especially in Apollo you can tell
it that on every single request.
Just pull that from the local host
and you don't have to do it manually every single time.
But, because it's a serve side render
when I refresh this page or I visit this page
for the very first time after being signed in
maybe a couple of days ago the server ...
There's not way for me to send
the local storage along for the ride.
And that's where we're going to be using cookies.
So, let's go back in here.
We've got our token, then what we want to do
it decode that token.
So, you'll say, if there is a token
because there might not always be a token.
The person might be signed out
so there's going to be no token.
If there is we will take the user ID out of the token
so say, const, user ID is equal to jwt dot verify
You give it the token, then we also need
to make sure that we are passing along the app secret.
If you open up our variables dot env
you remember we have this here.
You can always decode it without having a secret.
But, what this will do is that it'll make sure
that no one has monekyed with it and added
in their own values to the jwt.
Because anyone could just go ahead and edit their cookies
saying that they are an administrator
and then, you could see how that would be a bit of an issue.
So, we will pass the process do env dot APP_SECRET
and then, we will put the user ID onto the request
for further request to access.
So, we'll simply just tack it on.
Request dot user ID is equal to user ID.
And then, that's it, we will call next.
So, regardless of if there's a token or if there's not
a token we will call next and that will pass along
the request.
It's not going to send a response
directly from this middelware.
It will pass it along the line and then,
later when we get into one of our
resolvers, whether that's a query or mutation resolver,
we'll be able to easily access this user ID
without having to decode the jwt every single time.
One little error I have here is I forgot
to import the jwt.
So, import, jwt from jsonwebtoken.
Oh, const, equals, require.
Looking good.
Alright, next we need to go into our schema
and add in a query for the current user.
I'm just going to call that me.
And when someone queries me it's going to return a user.
It's not going to be required because it's possible
that you could query me and there is no logged in user.
So, we will not put an exclamation on the end
and there is no arguments because it's simply
going to take in that jsonwebtoken cookie
and parser it for us so, we don't need to pass it,
like, here it my user ID.
It will already know it
because it's been passed along with the request.
So, that's a very simple one that we can pass along.
Now, you'll know that any time we add something
to our schema we have to add something to our resolvers.
And thankfully, this is not one that we're going
to be just forwarding to the database.
So, we'll say anytime someone requests me.
We can do that same signature that we have.
Which is the parent, the args, the ctx and the info.
And from that first we're going to check.
And maybe we should to a comment.
Check if there is a current user ID.
So, if, and how do you access the request?
Right?
Because in middelware it's pretty easy.
You get the request, you get the response,
then you get the next.
But, there is a request and a response,
but there's no way ... like how do we access it from here?
And the way that you access it is on the ctx.
So, you say ctx dot.
And it's request here, not req.
That bit me a whole bunch of times.
I'm so used to writing request and response like that.
But, it's full blown, request, and at that point
it's just a regular express request.
So, anything that you're use to doing
in express lane, you can do that in here.
So, we'll just say if the request has a user ID, right?
Like, if we have put it on the request, right here,
then we can access it over here.
If there is not one, so we'll put bang in front of that.
If there's no user ID then, we are simply
going to return null.
And that's important that we're returning null there.
And often what you'll do is if there's nothing
found you will throw an error
and say, no, user found.
But, it's important that we return null in this case
because we do want to be able to have this query.
And for it to return nothing because someone
might not be logged in.
Otherwise, if their is a user ID
we're simply going to return the ctx dot database
dot query dot user, and we're going to use if we look
at our generated one.
If we look for type query, you can see
that there is a user query, right here.
And you can pass it a ware.
So, that's what we're going to do.
Ware, the ID of the user is equal to the ctx
dot request dot user ID, right?
Oh, make sure that's lowercase ID
that will ruin your day.
We've got that here, that here.
You can also put it up into it's own variable in there.
I'm not going to do that just 'cause it's fairly simple.
Second, we also need to pass the info
and the info again is going to be the actual query
that's coming from the client's side
because that user's going to end up
having a cart and it has permissions
and it has the name, and the email address.
And it's going to have orders
and it's going to have all of this data associated with it.
And our user query is going to get quite large
so we want to be able to pass the actual query
from the front end so that when we
just want to get the user's email address
we're not getting a whole cart at the exact same time.
So, that's why we pass info along to it.
And because we are returning a promise here
we do not need to wait for that to resolve.
We just return the promise and it will resolve itself
once is has been finished and come back.
What else do we have here?
This is just a shorthand syntax.
So, instead of saying, me function,
that this is the shorthand method syntax in ex6,
if you're unfamiliar with that.
This is a spelling mistake, we'll fix that
and we can remove all of these items here.
Looking good.
I think we're done on the backend.
Let's flip over to the client's side
so we can actually get to querying this.
Alright, now we need to flip to the front end
and built an react component that's going
to both query the back end for the data
as well as display it in some use case.
And that's actually going to be quite a bit of code.
Every single time we need to get the current user
we're going to have to write a query,
and we're going to have to import the query
component from react Apollo.
And then, we're going to have
to have a render prop for that.
So, what I'm going to show you in this part of the video
is that this is how we can make our own
Render Prop component that will allow us
to tuck sort of all that complexity
into its on component and just make it a nice,
clean, little user coponent that will provide
to us a user if the user is logged in.
So, let's go into the components folder
and make a new file called user.
Capital U dot js.
In that we're going to import query from react Apollo.
Going to import gql and we're also
going to import PropTypes from prop types.
Now, what we need to do is write the query
for what we want.
Const, current user query is equal to gql.
And that is going to ask for me.
And back from me, we need the ID,
the email, the name and the permissions of the user.
We're going to actually come
back to that and add in the user's order, the user's cart
and the items that are in the user's cart.
Good, that's good for our query.
Then, what we're going to do
is we're going to make our user component.
So, const user is equal to props,
and from that we will return a query component.
That query takes a query, which is our current user query.
Usually, what I would do is the child
of query is going to be a function
that has our data in it and from that
we will return a paragraph tag
with the data dot user dot name or something in that.
But, instead of that we're actually going
to make the user component just take one of these
itself and make it a Render Prop.
So, rather than returning that the child
of this is simply going to take the payload
and pass it to the child function.
So, it'll say props dot children, and pass it the payload.
Right, so, what this will do is allow us
to do something like this where we have a user component
and we'll be able to take the payload
just like we are used to and pop it in
without having to rewrite this query
or pass it every, single time.
Which is really, really useful.
Last thing we want to do is any props
that actually get passed the from query,
then need to be spread into this query component right here.
So, we'll say, dot, dot, dot, props.
So, anytime we want to write a user component
and we want to pass additional props
to the query component we can simply
just past it to our user component
and they will automatically get passed on down.
Go ahead and export default the user component.
Let's also export the current user query.
So we can access it we're going to need
to re-fetch this query a number of different places.
We'll make sure that the user dot proptypes
is equal to the children.
It's going to be a proptypes dot func and isRequired.
That way we knew whenver you use it
the only thing you must pass as child
is going to be a function.
Good, so this is how you build
your own Render Prop component.
Now, how do we actually use it?
Well, let's go into ... let's try inner nav.
And let's just go right at the top of this
and we'll import the user component from user.
Let's try just user right here.
User, the child of user is going to take in the data.
And let's just console that log.
The data.
Oh, this is not in curly brackets.
Parentheses and, return.
And another paragraph that says user.
Alright, let's check it out.
Internal server error, what happened?
Something on the client's side.
Syntax error, unexpected name, me.
Why?
Here, gql.
Oh, we went a little too quick on it.
The query is going to be called me.
So, make sure you put your me query inside of that.
We'll see if that fixes it.
Good, give it a refresh.
And we see the paragraph user.
Does our user get console logged?
Dot data, dot me.
Hey, hey!
There it is.
So, it's showing me the permissions, the email, the ID.
All of the information about that specific user.
And, what we should be able to do now
is go into our nav and display that data.
So, we will say ...
Let's actually go ahead and destructure this data
one step further.
So, we'll destructure the data into me.
And here, let's just console log me
and return, say, if me return.
Me dot name, otherwise we're going to return null, nothing.
Bit of an error here.
Unexpected token.
Oh, it's 'cause we ... the payload has data
inside of it so this is
kind of a two-level destructure, right?
So, we have our payload.
But, we're going to destructure that into data.
We can also grab the error if we wanted to
but in our case we just want data.
And then, we're going to further destructure
data into me and that will give us
payload dot data dot me,
into just the top level variable called me.
I bet that'll fix it.
Beautiful, this says Wes Bos.
Now, try to open that up in an incognito window.
It's doesn't show me anything 'cause I'm not signed in.
If you, for some reason, don't have that cookie right here,
then we need to do the next video.
Which you have to actually be able
to sign in and sign out.
So, let's jump into that with the next video.